Rubidium atoms fly at speeds of hundreds of km per hour at room temperature.
With electromagnetic fields we can create a magneto-optical trap
and cool the atoms to microkelvin temperatures.
Atom chips can hold the atoms in a magnetic potential close to the surface.
When further cooling, atoms undergo
a phase transition into a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC).
BECs are extremely sensitive to the local magnetic field.
Therefore the BEC position and shape can be manipulated with the current in the atom chip.
We may place a sample above the atom chip and probe its surface current with the BEC.
Magnetic field distribution is mapped onto the atomic distribution
that is imaged as the shadow of a light beam.
Fragmentation of the BEC  is proportional to the
magnetic field component induced by the current along the surface.
The 2D current distribution will be mapped
by scanning the BEC position along the sample surface.